ADR-14: bootstrap from previously seen peers (#2024)
celestiaorg/celestia-node: docs/adr/adr-013-bootstrap-from-previous-peers.md

In this ADR, we wish to aleviate this problem by allowing nodes to bootstrap from previously seen peers. This is a simple solution that allows the network to gain more decentralization, where nodes can join the network without the need for hardcoded bootstrappers, as long as they have already seen at least one peer.

_Original issue available in references_

## Decision

Periodically store the addresses of previously seen peers in a new key-value database, and allow the node to bootstrap from these peers on startup.

## Detailed Design

### What systems will be affected?

- `peerTracker` and `libhead.Exchange` from `go-header`
- `newInitStore` in `nodebuilder/header.go`

### Database

We will use a badgerDB datastore to store the addresses of previously seen peers. The database will be stored in the `data` directory, and will be named `peers.db`. The database will have a single key-value pair, where the key is the peer ID, and the value is the peer multiaddress.

The peer store will implement the following interface:

```go
type PeerStore interface {
    // Put adds a peer to the store.

>     Put(peer.ID, ma.Multiaddr) error

Author: Totally inline here, since this was an initial draft, it didn't include this but I left a TODO (_if you've seen it_) on the ADR to basically describe the logic for evicting/keeping only nodes since the last (_say_) 24 hours

    // Get returns a peer from the store.

>     Get(peer.ID) (ma.Multiaddr, error)

Author: Indeed

    // Delete removes a peer from the store.

>     Delete(peer.ID) error

Author: I expect it to be used in the clean up routine that maintains the freshest nodes in the store, but this part is yet to be added to the ADR.

## Detailed Design

### What systems will be affected?

* `peerTracker` and `libhead.Exchange` from `go-header`
* `newInitStore` in `nodebuilder/header.go`

### Database

We will use a badgerDB datastore to store the addresses of previously seen peers. The database will be stored in the `data` directory, and will be named `peers.db`. The database will have a single key-value pair, where the key is the peer ID, and the value is the peer multiaddress.

The peer store will implement the following interface:

```go
type PeerStore interface {
   // Put adds a list of peers to the store.
    Put([]peer.AddrInfo) error
    // Get returns a peer from the store.
    Load() ([]peer.AddrInfo, error)
    // Delete removes a peer from the store.
    Delete(peer.ID) error
}
```

And we expect the underlying implementation to use a badgerDB datastore. Example:

```go
type peerStore struct {
    db datastore.Datastore
}
```

### Peer Selection & Persistence

To periodically select the _"good peers"_ that we're connected to and store them in the peer store, we will rely on the internals of `go-header`, specifically the `peerTracker` and `libhead.Exchange` structs.

> `peerTracker` has internal logic that continuiously tracks and garbage collects peers, so that if new peers connect to the node, peer tracker keeps track of them in an internal list, as well as it marks disconnected peers for removal. `peerTracker` also blocks peers that fail to answer*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`peerTracker` has internal logic that continuiously tracks and garbage collects peers, so that if new peers connect to the node, peer tracker keeps track of them in an internal list, as well as it marks disconnected peers for removal. `peerTracker` also blocks peers that behave maliciously*.
```

+       }
+
        p.peerLk.Unlock()
+
+       p.onUpdatedPeers(updatedPeerList)
                }
        }
 }
```

where are `OnBlockedPeer` will be called whenever `peerTracker` blocks a peer through its method `blockPeer`.

```diff
+++ go-header/p2p/peer_tracker.go
 // blockPeer blocks a peer on the networking level and removes it from the local cache.
 func (p *peerTracker) blockPeer(pID peer.ID, reason error) {
        // add peer to the blacklist, so we can't connect to it in the future.
        err := p.connGater.BlockPeer(pID)
        if err != nil {
                log.Errorw("header/p2p: blocking peer failed", "pID", pID, "err", err)
        }
        // close connections to peer.
        err = p.host.Network().ClosePeer(pID)
        if err != nil {
                log.Errorw("header/p2p: closing connection with peer failed", "pID", pID, "err", err)
        }
 
        log.Warnw("header/p2p: blocked peer", "pID", pID, "reason", reason)
 
        p.peerLk.Lock()
        defer p.peerLk.Unlock()
        // remove peer from cache.
        delete(p.trackedPeers, pID)
        delete(p.disconnectedPeers, pID)
+       p.onBlockedPeer(PIDToAddrInfo(pID))
 }
```

> We are assuming a function named `PIDToAddrInfo` that converts a `peer.ID` to a `peer.AddrInfo` struct for this example's purpose. 

Reviewer: host.Peerstore().PeerInfo(id)

The `peerTracker`'s constructor should be updated to accept these new event handlers:
```diff
+++ go-header/p2p/peer_tracker.go
 type peerTracker struct {
 func newPeerTracker(
        h host.Host,
        connGater *conngater.BasicConnectionGater,
+       onUpdatedPeers func([]peer.ID),
+       onBlockedPeer func(peer.ID),
 ) *peerTracker {
```

as well as the `libhead.Exchange`'s options and construction:

```diff
+++ go-header/p2p/options.go
 type ClientParameters struct {
        // MaxHeadersPerRangeRequest defines the max amount of headers that can be requested per 1 request.
        MaxHeadersPerRangeRequest uint64
        // RangeRequestTimeout defines a timeout after which the session will try to re-request headers
        // from another peer.
        RangeRequestTimeout time.Duration
        // TrustedPeersRequestTimeout a timeout for any request to a trusted peer.
        TrustedPeersRequestTimeout time.Duration
        // networkID is a network that will be used to create a protocol.ID
        networkID string
        // chainID is an identifier of the chain.
        chainID string
+
+       onUpdatedPeers func([]peer.AddrInfo)

> +       onBlockedPeer func(peer.AddrInfo)

Reviewer: if we want to put it in params, it'd have to be accessible externally so needs to be exported.

                        connGater,
+                       params.OnUpdatedPeers
+                       params.OnBlockedPeer,
                ),
                Params: params,
        }
 
        ex.trustedPeers = func() peer.IDSlice {
                return shufflePeers(peers)
        }
        return ex, nil
 }
 ```

And then define `libhead.Exchange` options to set the event handlers on the `peerTracker`:
```go
+++ go-header/p2p/options.go
func WithOnUpdatedPeers(f func([]]peer.ID)) Option[ClientParameters] {
       return func(p *ClientParameters) {
               switch t := any(p).(type) { //nolint:gocritic
               case *PeerTrackerParameters:
                       p.onUpdatedPeers = f
               }
       }
}

func WithOnBlockedPeer(f func([]]peer.ID)) Option[ClientParameters] {
       return func(p *ClientParameters) {
               switch t := any(p).(type) { //nolint:gocritic
               case *PeerTrackerParameters:
                       p.onBlockedPeer = f
               }
       }
}
```

The event handlers to be supplied are callbacks that either:

1. Put the new peer list into the peer store
2. Remove a blocked peer from the peer store

> Such callbacks are easily passable as options sat header module construction time, example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such callbacks are easily passable as options at header module construction time, example:
```
